I'm gonna go on a brief,
quick tour of the language.
Like I said, I'm not gonna really
go over every one of these things.
I just wanna show them to you.
So solidity,
if you've seen an if statement,
you know how if statements work, right?
If you've seen a for Loop,
just like every for Loop you've ever used.
Contracts effectively
are identical to classes.
You can hang members off contracts.
There are constructors on contracts.
You can specify a function with
a scope and a return type.
All these things should
be pretty familiar.
Yes you may not be able to type the exact
syntax your first try just because you
haven't done it enough time for
it to be habitual but for
now that's that, all right.
So that's the simplicity of the language.
Like I said,
the language is actually very simple.
It only gets into the weeds when
you get to the more advanced stuff.
So the base type on solidity
is a 256 bit number.
It's unusual because base types
usually aren't numbers, nor
are they 256 bits that's
actually a really large number.
It's effectively the size
of the universe in atoms.
Maybe I'm off by about a factor of 10,000.
But that's a very large number, right?
10 to the 79, I think is two to the 56.
And so you can subdivide these out and
do like a u and eight,
that's eight bits or one byte or
representing 256 distinct values.
You can do a u and 16, 32, 64, 128.
It allows some for
some basic subdividing in there.
Strings suck, so don't do them.
That's the general rule of thumb is that
unless if you have a bunch of hard coded
ones, you're gonna construct
some sort of output with.
Working with strings is really painful
because the base type is 256 bit number.
So you're kind of mashing strings
into these number representations.
It can lead to a lot of pain.
I tend to just avoid strings in the things
I've written every single time except for
like I said meta information generation
by simply just concatenate a bunch of
stuff together that are hard coded
strings and pulling out data.
Array, there are dynamic and
static arrays or fixed arrays.
If you specify array on the contract
as a member, it is a dynamic array.
Right now you're probably thinking,
why does that matter?
When we get to the final part of this
it will make perfect sense for now,
except it is beautiful.
If you specify an array inside the
function, you specify it as a fixed array.
I need an array of size 10, you cannot
inline generate an array right now so
you just have to do this and then you
can add in each number as you'd like.
So fixed inside of functions dynamic
outside when it's on a member of
a contract.
Maps again,
different from what you're used to.
It's a mapping, not necessarily a map,
a map stores keys and values.
Mappings do not store keys, and
they technically don't even store values.
It's kinda confusing.
You do a mapping from type to type and
the type can even be a complex type.
It doesn't have to be a simple type.
And that will be a mapping.
It'll do some super special
magic underneath the hood, and
it will be able to store that.
But you cannot for each over keys.
You cannot for each over values.
You don't even know how many items
are inside of your map because it's
actually just simply a mathematical
function that gets executed.
And we'll go over that in
more detail later on, but
it will make perfect sense why this is and
just for now keep it that way all right.
Struct, they're just like C
you simply say struct foo or
I guess go lang is another example and
you can specify a bunch of stuff in there.
You can create a mapping
from say you went to foo.
You can create a full array, right?
So you can use those,
you can create a mapping to a mapping
that is a UN to a full array.
So there is no, you can do all
the standard mixes you'd like.
There are also enums.
We'll be using one here shortly, so
I just didn't even put it in here.
And there you go.
That is the basic of the language.
At this point, you've already seen
enough of the solidity language,
you pretty much know most of its bits.
Some of the concepts get pretty
hard if you ever want to learn more
about solidity, go to soliditylang.org.
And it gives you this really nice like,
you can learn everything about it.
The layout of the memory, how call data
works, types, global things, expressions,
contracts, inline assembly,
it has everything to it.
It's very, very nice.
I figured you probably didn't
want me to read the docs for you.
You can read the friendly manual
on your own time,we should
probably discuss more of the fun parts and
so
we are gonna build as we learn that
is always my favorite way to learn.
It's not just simply reading but
to build something fail get better
learn why and slowly build over time.
So is there any questions thus far on what
I just showed you with just the basic
types, the unit type which is of course,
256 bit number, anything like that.?
>> Why does solidity exist?
Why couldn't they have just made a library
from Python or another Language?
>> My guessing is that as we go on,
you'll see a lot of the complications with
how they chosen some of their
things that they've done.
Solidity seems to fit very,
very well with this.
I know Solona went with rust.
I don't know how much it actually
resembles rust itself or what subset
they've chosen to implement from rust,
but it appears to be much nicer that way.
I don't know why they went
with their own language.
I don't know why anyone invents
their own language in fact,
with all the languages we already have,
pretty much all the problems you've
ever wanted have all ready been solved.
But they've chosen this language.
It works very well for what they want.
And when you break into inline assembly,
it works very, very well.
And so I think that they kind of
chose this to ease a lot of it.
I cannot speak on behalf that I
don't know the technical answer, but
a lot of the peculiarities of the Ethereum
network are built into the language and
you'll see why soon because like I said,
it's not a map.
There is no map.
There's a mapping.
It's like a map.
It's unique, if you will.